# LBPH

<h3>Local Binary Patterns Histogram</h3>

<pre>
      Authentication is one of the significant issues in the era of the information 
system. Among other things, human face recognition (HFR) is one of the known 
techniques which can be used for user authentication. However, it is difficult to 
estimate the attendance precisely using each result of face recognition independently 
because the face detection rate is not sufficiently high.

      Continuous observation improves the performance for the estimation of the 
attendance we constructed the lecture attendance system based on face recognition 
and applied the system to the classroom. This paper first review the related works in 
the field of attendance management and face recognition. Then, it introduces our 
system structure and plan.

      The attendance is taken in every organization. Traditional approach for 
attendance is, professor calls student name &record attendance. For each lecture this 
is wastage of time. To avoid these losses, we are about to use automatic process 
which is based on image processing. In this project approach, we are using face 
detection & face recognition system. The first phase is pre-processing where the face 
detection is processed through the step image processing. It includes the face 
detection and face recognition process. Second phase is feature extraction. Step by 
step execution of these techniques (Image Processing) helps to achieve the final 
output.

      The working of this project is to detect and recognize the face and mark the 
attendance for the corresponding face in the database. Input of this project is face 
detection and recognition and output is to mark the attendance .Our project is being 
presented as a solution for the Automatic Attendance Marking System. It is designed 
to be reliable and low power. The Automatic face detection and recognition proposed 
to attendance marking in database acts as the solution for the automatic attendance 
marking system..
</pre>
# STEPS

<ul>
  <li>Capturing the data</li>
  <li>Storing in Local System (training images)</li>
  <li>Images Should be trained</li>
  <li>Recgonize the faces based on previous data </li>
  <li>Auto mail to particular person</li>
</ui>

# References
<ul>
      <li>
      <a href="https://towardsdatascience.com/face-recognition-how-lbph-works-90ec258c3d6b">Algorithm</a>            
      </li>
 </ul>

